Welcome back.
CU's are our next data structure and the best way to think about them is like an entrance to a rollercoaster.
The first person that arrives in line gets to go first on the roller coaster and then the second person
gets to go and then the third person gets to go.
And the fourth the fifth and the six finally gets to go.
So it's the opposite of stacks in that we access first in first out the first item in the queue gets
access first that is first.
We call that FIFO and queues are used again a lot in programming problems and interview questions.
For example if you had any sort of waitlist app to perhaps buy tickets for a concert that uses cues
what about a restaurant app where you check into the restaurant to see if you can get a table that uses
Skewes.
What about Oubre or lift when you want to grab a ride.
Well the person that requested the ride first will get priority and then you'll get second.
And then finally the most common example of queues is a printer right.
If you had a printer at home and you have three people on three different computers or your home.
Let's say your family members and you press print and each person prints different items.
The person that clicks print first should have their first print out.
And same for the second person that goes next.
And then the third person now on the right here I have a couple of words that are different then push
and pop and I'm using a bit of standard here.
You can use push for and cue which means add to the cue that is at a person in line which is 0 1 and
dequeue which you can think of as pop which is remove person from line.
However dequeue unlike pop doesn't take that last person in line takes the first person.
So that's where stacks and cues differ.
And we have these names to make sure that we understand the differences but we have peak which once
again tells us what's the first item that's going to come up that is the first person in the list versus
a cue that is the last played which was the last in first out.
And once again look up in a Q You usually don't do because you're only interested in and cueing and
Dijk doing.
You can see here that are big O notation is quite fast.
We're actually going to demonstrate this in code but I want you to try and answer this question why
would you not want to use an array to build a cue pause the video if you want to think about it.
Well the answer is that it's very inefficient because we're removing the first item from the list.
If you remember arrays if you shift something you remove the first item you're going to have to shift
all those indexes.
So creating a queue from arrays although you can do it is really really bad.
And that's something we'll talk a little bit more about when we actually code it.
OK.
That's enough for CU's.
Let's go on to our first exercise.